What's the best motivator for you or for your athletes?
Hatred of losing or love of winning?
For me personally, it was definitely the hatred of losing.
I was not a guy that was about pageantry.
I was not a guy that was about the parade. Um,
when I wrestled in Atlanta, um,
I rented a three cylinder geo with my wife,
drove home and mow the lawn because it hadn't been moaned for a month.
And I remember one of our neighbors driving by and they were like,
they did a double take, like that's I thought he was in Atlanta. Well,
I wasn't Atlanta yesterday and just sat on the stand and got a gold medal put
around my neck. Um, that's how I was. Um,
that doesn't mean that it was a right approach or the wrong approach.
It's just what worked for me.
But when you were a kid, you and Terry,
you dreamed about winning that Olympic gold. Yeah.
About winning. Then there is the, the, the lure of winning,
but what drives you is that, um, you know, as you move forward,
there's just no
reason that you have to settle for anything but being the best. And if,
if it just,
it would get to you to the point where that's not gonna happen to me again.
So what, what, the thing that keeps you up at night is the, the losses.
And that's not, that's not gonna happen to me again.
That's the thought that keeps you up at night.
That's the thought that drives you in your training? That's what, why you do,
you know, nine ropes when Gable says, do three ropes and buddy pushups,
and you're outta here and you do nine, or you do 'em until you can't do anymore.
And it's a very rare ingredient. The older I get, the more rare I find it is.
The ingredient of loss, feeding,
feeding the drive of hard.
Training, maybe that, because everybody's so worried about the negative,
whatever, and you're putting too much pressure on yourself. So maybe that,
but what I meant was is when a coach says, okay, finish with four ropes and,
you know, buddy pushups in four way neck, you know,
I would do 12 or 10 that that's rare.
It's no longer about what the coach says.
It's your own demons that you're trying to, right. Exercise out.
What's the few losses you've had in your life.
Are all of them just melt together or is there something that stands out
in your mind?
I'm I'm guy that remembers, um, my career that, well,
I know that I am judged on a very small
portion of my life and it's minutes of wrestling matches, you know, lot of,
lot of winning, but there's some losing in there too. And, you know,
people think they know you because of that.
And they think they know you because they see you in a press conference. But,
um, you know, to go back to the original question, you know,
I don't know how to answer that.
So there's no losses that just that eat at.
You still there's opponents that I have learned a great deal from. I mean,
my loss to John Smith, uh, in 1991, um,
us opened was something that I learned a lot about.
Um, I learned a lot about positioning.
I learned a lot about the importance of parter, um, you know,
in a certain kind of easy way.
I learned that I could go with the best guy in the world,
even though it was 14 to four mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And this is when tech falls were 15 or 12 points. So I didn't get tech fall.
And I wasn't that wasn't a badge honor for me,
but I knew I could go with him because it was one point tank downs.
I scored four tank downs on him, and I learned that I had to move my feet.
Um, and I learned what it meant to move feet constantly. And, and there's no,
Frank John Smith is a very,
very intense competitor that people know that now six time world
Olympic champion. And I felt that firsthand, but I did not go in there.
Um, taking a backseat, even though the score, um,
was very lot excited, but you knew you could stand with the best of the world.
I knew that I, this is what this is about and you know what?
You move your feet and you don't give up a lace. That's so tight that it,
you, you can't, you know, feel your calf muscle, you know,
and I gotta get ready for the consolation side of the bracket.
Cause I believe that was in the semis. You know, you know,
you just learn from that. And it was, it was better than learning from,
you know,
a win over a second ranked senior level guy when you're a junior in college.
Right. You know, you wrestl on the best on a stage.